# 外键
[Using FOREIGN KEY Constraints](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/create-table-foreign-keys.html)

    语法
    [CONSTRAINT [symbol]] FOREIGN KEY
        [index_name] (col_name, ...)
        REFERENCES tbl_name (col_name,...)
        [ON DELETE reference_option]
        [ON UPDATE reference_option]

    reference_option:
        RESTRICT | CASCADE | SET NULL | NO ACTION | SET DEFAULT

    示例
    CREATE TABLE `student` (
      `id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
      `name` varchar(255),
      PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
    )ENGINE=InnoDB;
    
    CREATE TABLE `grade` (
        `id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
        `student_id` int(10) UNSIGNED NOT NULL,
        PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
        CONSTRAINT `fk_id` FOREIGN KEY (`student_id`) REFERENCES student(`id`)
            ON DELETE CASCADE
            ON UPDATE CASCADE
    )ENGINE=InnoDB;
    
    插入限制
    INSERT INTO grade (`student_id`) VALUES ('1')
    > 1452 - Cannot add or update a child row: a foreign key constraint fails (`test`.`grade`, CONSTRAINT `fk_id` FOREIGN KEY (`student_id`) REFERENCES `student` (`id`) ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE)
    
    拒绝更新 RESTRICT 或 NO ACTION
    INSERT INTO student (`name`) VALUES ('s1')
    INSERT INTO grade (`student_id`) VALUES ('1')
    UPDATE student SET id=8 WHERE id=1
    > 1451 - Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails (`test`.`grade`, CONSTRAINT `fk_id` FOREIGN KEY (`student_id`) REFERENCES `student` (`id`))
    
    同步更新 CASCADE
    INSERT INTO student (`name`) VALUES ('s1')
    INSERT INTO grade (`student_id`) VALUES ('1')
    UPDATE student SET id=8 WHERE id=1
    
# 关联 Referential Actions
> For storage engines supporting foreign keys, MySQL rejects any INSERT or UPDATE operation that attempts to create a foreign key value in a child table if there is no a matching candidate key value in the parent table.

> When an UPDATE or DELETE operation affects a key value in the parent table that has matching rows in the child table, the result depends on the referential action specified using ON UPDATE and ON DELETE subclauses of the FOREIGN KEY clause. MySQL supports five options regarding the action to be taken, listed here:

> For an ON DELETE or ON UPDATE that is not specified, the default action is always RESTRICT.

## CASCADE 级联
> Delete or update the row from the parent table, and automatically delete or update the matching rows in the child table. Both ON DELETE CASCADE and ON UPDATE CASCADE are supported. Between two tables, do not define several ON UPDATE CASCADE clauses that act on the same column in the parent table or in the child table.

## SET NULL
Delete or update the row from the parent table, and set the foreign key column or columns in the child table to NULL. Both ON DELETE SET NULL and ON UPDATE SET NULL clauses are supported.

If you specify a SET NULL action, make sure that you have not declared the columns in the child table as NOT NULL.

## RESTRICT
Rejects the delete or update operation for the parent table. Specifying RESTRICT (or NO ACTION) is the same as omitting the ON DELETE or ON UPDATE clause.

## NO ACTION
A keyword from standard SQL. In MySQL, equivalent to RESTRICT. The MySQL Server rejects the delete or update operation for the parent table if there is a related foreign key value in the referenced table. Some database systems have deferred checks, and NO ACTION is a deferred check. In MySQL, foreign key constraints are checked immediately, so NO ACTION is the same as RESTRICT.

## SET DEFAULT
This action is recognized by the MySQL parser, but both InnoDB and NDB reject table definitions containing ON DELETE SET DEFAULT or ON UPDATE SET DEFAULT clauses.


# 遇到问题
## 不生效
> I would guess that your default storage engine is MyISAM, which ignores foreign key constraints. 
## 1215 - Cannot add foreign key constraint
数据类型要一致，两表都要是 InnoDB